Context

In the Partner Management module, when creating or updating a partner, users can select multiple Product Brands and Service Categories from checkboxes.

Problem

When a user adds or changes the selected Brand(s) or Service Category(ies) in the partner form and clicks “Update Partner”,
the success popup appears (showing “Partner updated successfully”).

However, upon reopening the same partner record:

The selected brand(s) revert to default or blank state.

The selected service categories also reset or do not reflect the last saved values.

This indicates that the UI reflects a success message but the backend payload or database update for these fields is not persisting.

Expected Behavior

When the user updates a partner’s brand or service categories, the selected values should:

Be properly included in the update payload (API request body).

Be saved correctly in the database.

Reflect accurately when reloading or reopening the partner details modal.

Likely Root Causes

Payload Mapping Issue:
The selected brand and category arrays are not being mapped or serialized properly in the request body (e.g., missing field names or incorrect key structure like brands vs productBrands).

Backend Update Logic:
API route may not be updating these specific fields on the server side — possibly due to missing fields in update schema or ORM mapping.

State Sync Problem:
UI shows success toast but doesn’t refresh or re-fetch updated data after API success, leading to stale data rendering.

Fix Recommendations

Frontend

Ensure the checkbox selections are stored in state and included in the API request body correctly:

{
  ...formValues,
  serviceCategories: selectedCategories,
  productBrands: selectedBrands,
}


After successful API call, trigger a re-fetch or state refresh to show the latest values.

Backend

Validate that both serviceCategories and productBrands are part of the update schema.

Confirm that they are being persisted correctly in the database model.

Verification Steps

Edit an existing partner → change brand & categories → click “Update Partner”.

Refresh the page or reopen the same partner record.

Ensure the newly selected options persist and are displayed correctly.